when did veganism jump the shark for
those of you don't know the phrase in
English jump the shark is an old 1990s
internet phenomenon referring originally
to a TV show called happy days where
there was one episode in which the plot
came to a tremendous crescendo one of
the characters on a motorcycle attempted
to jump over a shark a shark in an
aquarium and the idea is it's some kind
of tremendous event after which TV show
it's not necessarily that it becomes
worse and worse but it can never attain
its former glory again so this thing
we're doing here which is only partly on
the internet and partly in real life
partly on YouTube but yeah YouTube's
been a big part of it last five years
really has been don't kid yourself um
when did veganism jump the shark I was
reminded of this today thinking of the
very first controversy that really got
other vegans hating me and how
instructive that example was now a lot
of you love you a regular what viewers
you'll think you know what controversy
I'm talking about but you don't we need
you mate who's gonna make ma close line
a second guesses ethics who's gonna
troll supermarket customers to get their
take on eating meat we need people who
spice it up in this youichi community
all the other vegan channels they all
have the unique perspective we need your
perspective you're taking action in your
life and you want to get better and I
really
admire and respect that you know visibly
Conchita shaped oh there was a really
funny thing that happened way back when
I was still in Victoria attending
classes at UVic where there was a guy
who back then was vegan who back then
was a sincere vegan activist called
vegan cheetah
today he's ex vegan and anti vegan and
he became a horrible human being became
the most hated and infamous figure for
years but this is before all of that
before all of that he was a small
channel really like 1,000 views per
video or less he was a small Channel
nobody new people are new when people
like me there were other people
contributing to YouTube who knew him
that was about it he was a small channel
like Dom Bower or something like
everyone everyone who's a part of vegan
YouTube knows Dom Bower but Dom Bower
isn't famous and doesn't get a lot of
use for video anything he was a it was a
small voice and you know he just come on
and he made a really sad video that even
though he'd he'd tried to quit heroin
he'd already been in and out of jail had
been in a rehab he had a situation where
he broke up with a girlfriend a short
term girlfriend and he relapsed and he
voluntarily turned himself in like he
went and used heroin again and nobody
caught him he didn't get arrested he
went and he turned he decided to go go
back and do rehab again and a whole
bunch of people contributed little clips
of videos that basically said get well
soon we want you to we want we value you
as being part of the vegan we want you
to be here we want you to be one of us
now the controversy that ensued had to
do with who would edit it and produce
the video there was another guy who was
supposed to do it and he screwed up and
he had blown his deadline for months and
I said to him we'll look I've got the
clips do you want me to go ahead and
edit together because you've missed your
chance you've screwed up and he said yes
which he later lighted but he said yeah
you can go ahead and do your own thing
with it he said he was gonna do his own
project with it in future but it would
take more time and it wasn't well he
wanted to do with it
wasn't what people were expecting of him
and wasn't what I was gonna do she's
just I edited together the clips and
made this welcome home
get well soon video for the guy but when
you think about the constellation of
good intentions that's involved there
the type of collaboration of those
people coming together and yeah I ended
up editing the video and uploading it
but whatever and I remember in the video
yeah I just joke around I said to him
that I can still benchpress more than he
does or something that makes him joke
never happen again never happen again
on any issue and of course there's been
so many like more important issues or
tragedies right I mean there there have
been vegans there were people within the
movement that terrible things happened
ooh okay but of course this is the sad
way in which it's even more instructive
what happened immediately after the
video was done after it was wrapped
after was uploaded to my channel
everyone started pointing fingers at
everyone else and making up ludicrous
conspiracy theory so that was when a
vegan revolution started that's the name
of his channel Josh he started
blackening my name he claimed that I was
secretly working for the CIA to destroy
veganism from within like that was when
he started really putting out all kinds
of negative stuff against me he did an
interview with Charles after that with
vegan cheetah and more than 50% of the
recording is about me his theories about
me and the office it's kind of and it
wasn't just me it wasn't just you know
backstab you direct for me there was
backstabbing between other people in
that video you know sorcerer morale was
in the video I remember I won't say who
there was another person in the video
who's now quit vegan YouTube and deleted
her channel I remember someone told me
she wasn't a real vegan that she would
buy bread and didn't care if it eggs or
milk in it he'd seen this himself and
you know there was nothing to win Oh
people started tearing each other down
people started tearing me down and you
know there was nothing
wrong there was there wasn't like it was
a cause here to be sad about there
wasn't a crisis and there wasn't like a
struggle for some kind of scarce
commodity we were trying to control
right
so you saw the kind of glimmer of hope
of positivity of people working together
and then you saw the darkness and the
hollowness behind it just like that and
I wish I could say looking back at the
last five years the last ten years
whatever school the time I wish I could
say looking back that yeah you know
there are a lot of situations like that
there are a lot of situations where
people come together and really
collaborate to do something nice to do
something positive to reach out to
someone and say hey I heard you went to
drug rehab I hope you get well soon I
hope you know that when you come out you
come out clean we want you to be part of
the vegan movement we care about you we
value your YouTube channel and we value
as a vegan activist I don't know even
even one other one other example now
kind of it there are reasons for this
right like even that one I mentioned
okay so there's this one girl and she
said she was vegan but Ashlee sheets
bread that has milk powder and eggs and
stuff okay it's not meaningless there's
something there so there's some phone of
contention right I totally admit it um
you know Wayne's young let's say Wayne's
young goes to prison it's very unlikely
but it's possible he's got this court
case whatever I just saw his his video
very dramatic very well edited video he
put out his propaganda piece presenting
himself as a murderer and a hero because
of going to prison I I disagree with
what he's saying politically but
regardless it's a very well movie matil
at under 400 views had been up for a
couple weeks this is a leader of a major
international vegan organization direct
action everywhere he gets fewer YouTube
views than I do why one of the reasons
is you won't collaborate with me and I
don't just mean me I mean me and me and
me and you and you and you and you all
the people like me even if each
one only has a couple thousand viewers
right Wayans Young is sitting there with
his piece presenting himself as a great
martyr and a hero with his 390 views on
this video it put so much effort into
even though it's part of future and he
doesn't even reach the people I reach
with that message because he will talk
to me now if he talked to me of course
you'd have debate you'd have you know
I'm not gonna be an uncritical fan for
this guy but there might be some kind of
synergy and collaboration another's I
mean Gary Franchione a huge figure in
the movement big movement fewer fuse on
YouTube than I do go check his channel
he obviously got disheartened and gave
up sometimes go oh I'm I'm not a more
important person to give heard no
question he's way more important than me
but again why why why did he fail why do
you fail to connect with people here on
YouTube or in the movement in real life
because YouTube its importance as a
bridge to really it's because he never
came on my channel and it's not just me
it's me and me and me it's you and you
and you it's a lot of people like me
it's a lot of people at you in the ideas
it's because he never had a video like
that like for Charles where everyone
throws in a little piece I could I could
keep going on down the list the young
woman in England who founded the
Earthlings experience right YouTube
channel tried out became nothing and you
know not insulting her but her whole
movement dried up and became nothing
even though it was it was groundbreaking
and she got mainstream media coverage
she had all kinds of things behind her
uh uh
and then she was her movement was
knocked off and imitated by Paul Bashir
and Paul Bashir's movement again
allegedly a huge international movement
the videos on his channel get
suspiciously few views and I think we
know what that is again there's no
collaborations no cooperation that is
when veganism jump the shark and that is
why veganism jump the shark is because
each one of these leaders in each one of
these movements sunk into a kind of
doleful isolation and the synergy and
the potential for cooperation and the
potential to challenge one another's
opinions and come up with creative and
dining
new perspectives just just creativity as
such disappeared I mean really people
like to disrespect my truth but the fact
is that you know my name is I don't know
you